.. include:: links.txt

SlipStream and NuvlaBox Tutorial - 2017-04
==========================================

Introduction
------------

 * `Cloud Technology and Jargon <ss/cloud-technology.html>`_
 * `What is SlipStream <ss/slipstream-defined.html>`_
 * `What is NuvlaBox <nb/nuvlabox-defined.html>`_

Understanding SlipStream
------------------------

Understanding SlipStream using https://nuv.la (SixSq managed SlipStream
service).

 * `SlipStream Ecosystem <ss/slipstream-ecosystem.html>`_
 * `Key concepts <ss/key-concepts.html>`_
 * `Prerequisites for the tutorial <ss/prerequisites.html>`_
    * `Account on nuv.la <ss/prerequisites.html#nuvla-account>`_
    * `Clouds for the tutorial: Exoscale (public) and NuvlaBox (private)
      <ss/prerequisites.html#cloud-infrastructure-accounts>`_
    * `Workstation configuration
      <ss/prerequisites.html#workstation-configuration>`_
 * `SlipStream Web UI Tour <ss/web-interface-tour.html>`_

Understanding NuvlaBox hardware and software architectures
----------------------------------------------------------

 * `Hardware Architecture <nb/hw-spec.html>`_.  Types, specifications,
   capabilities of NuvlaBox capacity wise.
 * `Reliability & Security <nb/robustness.html>`_
 * `Using the NuvlaBox <nb/plug-and-play.html>`_.  Deploying application,
   Accessing VMs.
 * `Software Architecture <nb/sw-arch.html>`_
 * `Networking <nb/networking.html>`_
 * `NuvlaBox administration UI <nb/management.html>`_
 * `Sensors <nb/sensors-attach.html>`_

Demo
----
  * Deploying and accessing applications on NuvlaBox with remote SlipStream
     * Services: WordPress on NuvlaBox, from Nuvla
  * Deploying and accessing applications on NuvlaBox with local SlipStream
     * Services: RStudio on NuvlaBox
  * Sensor-based application
     * Services: People recognition from Nuvla (all class)

Building and running applications on NuvlaBoxes and Clouds
----------------------------------------------------------

Based on `Module III <ss/module-3.html>`_. Use Nuvla. Run all deployments on
NuvlaBox.  For multi-cloud deployment run on NuvlaBox and Exoscale.

 * `Workspace <ss/workspace.html>`_ (projects, ACLs, versioninig)
 * `Images <ss/images.html>`_ (native images)
 * `Components I <ss/components-1.html>`_ (parameterized and secured web server)
 * `Deployment logs <ss/debugging.html#reports>`_
 * `Components II <ss/components-2.html>`_ (test client for the web server)
 * `Applications <ss/applications.html>`_ (multi-machine deployment, parameters
   exchange, component multiplicity, multi-cloud deployment (test clients on
   NuvlaBox and web server on Exoscale))

Demo
----

Sensor-based applications on NuvlaBox.

 *  Cars counting camera and application

Automation, Optimization and Debugging
--------------------------------------

 * `Automating SlipStream <ss/automating-slipstream.html>`_
 * `Faster Deployment with build image feature <ss/faster-deployment.html>`_
 * `Debugging applications <ss/debugging.html>`_

Scalable Applications
---------------------

Base on `Module IV <ss/module-4.html>`_.

 * Application (auto-)scalability with SlipStream. Theory

   * `Scalable applications <ss/scalable-applications.html>`_
   * `Auto-scaling user applications
     <ss/autoscalable-applications.html#auto-scaling-of-user-applications>`_

 * Demo of `Auto-scalable application in SlipStream
   <ss/autoscalable-applications.html>`_ on Exoscale.

