Usage Scenarios
===============

The NuvlaBox platform has been designed to bring the flexibility and
ease-of-use of cloud infrastructures to Internet-of-Things (IoT) and
Edge Computing platforms.  Incorporating NuvlaBox machines into these
platforms improves

 - **Reliability** by allowing for autonomous operation,
 - **Performance** by optimizing data flows between components, and
 - **Security** through better protection of data and components.

A wide range of scenarios can benefit from NuvlaBox systems.

Smart Grid
----------

All industrial control systems acquire equipment monitoring and
performance data.  They use this data to control operations and to
ensure that the industrial plant is working correctly.  Unfortunately,
these platforms are static, limited by the hardcoded algorithms
embedded into the system. They cannot quickly react and adapt to
changes within the industrial environment.

Through the `SCISSOR project <https://scissor-project.com>`_,
co-funded by the European Commission, SixSq has demonstrated how cloud
technologies including the NuvlaBox can provide a SCADA platform that
can react rapidly to changes and evolves as the knowledge of the
industrial platform improves.  The platform benefits both from the
remote management possible from SlipStream and the NuvlaBox, while
allowing for autonomous operation in cases where remote locations are
temporarily isolated from the rest of the platform.

Smart Cities
------------

Communities can markedly improve the life of their citizens and
streamline their operations by taking advantage of the vast amount of
data provided by public transport systems, traffic monitoring,
environmental sensors, and the like.

NuvlaBox deployments can improve these "Smart City" platforms by:

 - Avoiding large data flows over low-bandwidth connections, though
   local analysis of data.
 - Protecting data with privacy concerning by limited the diffusion of
   such data to a local area.
 - Remove silos of information allowing the platforms to increase
   performance by understanding the correlations between different
   data sources.

SixSq, through the `CityZen initiative <http://cityzen.ch>`_ , has
shown how lighting systems can adapt to changing traffic conditions to
increase safety and energy efficiency. 

