Terms of Service
================

This document contains the Terms of Service and Privacy Policies
associated with the SlipStream service.

BY CHECKING THE "I AGREE" BUTTON DURING REGISTRATION AND/OR
ACCESSING THIS SERVICE, YOU ACKNOWLEDGE THAT YOU HAVE READ,
UNDERSTOOD AND AGREE TO BE BOUND BY THESE TERMS OF SERVICE. IF YOU
DO NOT AGREE TO ALL OF THESE TERMS OF SERVICE YOU WILL NOT BE GIVEN
ACCESS TO USE THE SERVICE.

Description of Service
----------------------

SixSq Sarl ("SixSq"), hosts this website (the "Site") on its SlipStream
environment (the "Software"). The Software and all information,
communications, documentation, scripting, images, graphics and other
materials and services found on the Site (collectively, the "Service")
is for the use of registered developers, employees and other authorized
users of the Site, but only for the purpose of *software development,
integration, deployment and testing*.

Grant of License to Use
-----------------------

Subject to the terms and conditions set forth in these Terms of Service
("TOS"), SixSq grant user ("You") an individual, personal,
non-exclusive, non-transferable, and revocable license (the "License")
to use the Service offered through the Site, including the Software.
Upon termination of these TOS for any reason, the License will
terminate, and You will cease to have access to the Service. Any rights
not expressly granted herein by SixSq are reserved.

You acknowledge and agree that You will not, directly or indirectly: (i)
reverse engineer, decompile, disassemble or otherwise attempt to
discover the underlying source code or underlying ideas or algorithms of
the Software; (ii) modify, translate, or create derivative works based
on the Software; (iii) rent, lease, distribute, sell, resell or assign,
or otherwise transfer rights to the Software; or (iv) remove any
proprietary notices in the Software.

You acknowledge and agree that the Software includes the valuable
proprietary and trade secret information and property of SixSq or its
licensors. Title, ownership rights and intellectual property rights,
including but not limited to, copyright and patent rights in the
Software shall remain in SixSq and/or its licensors. You acknowledge the
ownership and intellectual property rights of SixSq and will not take
any action to jeopardize, limit or interfere in any manner with SixSq's
or its licensors' ownership of or rights with respect to the Software.
The Software is protected by copyright law and other intellectual
property laws and by international treaties.

Other Licenses
--------------

This Site may contain other license(s) applicable to content on this
Site ("Other License(s)"). You agree to abide by the terms of any such
Other License(s). In the event of any conflict between certain
provisions of the Other License(s) and the TOS, the applicable
provisions of the Other License(s) shall prevail.

Prohibited Conduct
------------------

You may only use the Site and the Service offered through the Site in
accordance with SixSq use policy ("Use Policy"), as set forth in this
section. You are responsible for the content of any comments,
information, questions, data, computer code or programs, feedback,
ideas, descriptions of processes or other information submitted through
the Site by You. You may only submit to the Site content that is (i)
owned by You, (ii) submitted with the express permission of the owner,
or (iii) in the public domain. In addition, all material posted to the
Site by You must be relevant to the specified software development
project and must be in good taste as determined by common sense and the
most restrictive community standards. The Site may not be used to:

-  upload, post or otherwise transmit any data or content that is
   unlawful, harmful, threatening, abusive, harassing, tortious,
   defamatory, vulgar, obscene, pornographic, libelous, invasive of
   another's privacy, hateful, or racially, ethnically or otherwise
   objectionable;

-  harm minors in any way;

-  impersonate any person or entity, including, but not limited to, any
   SixSq official, forum leader, guide or host, or falsely state or
   otherwise misrepresent your affiliation with a person or entity;

-  upload, post or otherwise transmit any content that You do not have a
   right to transmit under any law or under contractual or fiduciary
   relationships (such as inside information, proprietary and
   confidential information learned or disclosed as part of employment
   relationships or under nondisclosure agreements);

-  upload, post or otherwise transmit any content that violates any law
   or violates the personal, proprietary, or intellectual property
   rights or other rights of any third party;

-  upload, post or otherwise transmit any unsolicited or unauthorized
   advertising, promotional materials, "junk mail," "spam," "chain
   letters," "pyramid schemes," or any other form of solicitation;

-  upload, post or otherwise transmit any material that contains
   software viruses or any other computer code, files or programs
   designed to interrupt, destroy or limit the functionality of any
   computer software or hardware or telecommunications equipment;

-  interfere with or disrupt the Site or servers or networks connected
   to the Site, or disobey any requirements, procedures, policies or
   regulations of networks connected to the Site;

-  "stalk" or otherwise harass another;

-  collect or store personal data about other users; or

-  promote or provide instructional information about illegal
   activities, promote physical harm or injury against any group or
   individual. This may include, but is not limited to, providing
   instructions on how to assemble bombs and other weapons.

SixSq does not prescreen content that is posted to the Site; however,
SixSq reserves the right to remove any content that fails to meet the
foregoing Use Policy and to revoke your account. SixSq further reserves
the right to investigate complaints or reported violations of this Use
Policy, and to take any appropriate action, including, without
limitation, reporting and providing information of any suspected
unlawful activity to law enforcement officials, regulators, or other
third parties, including disclosing any information necessary or
appropriate to such person or entities relating to user profiles, e-mail
addresses, usage history, posted materials, IP addresses and traffic
information.

To comment on this Use Policy or to report material or conduct that You
believe is inappropriate, please contact feedback@sixsq.com.

Compliance with Laws
--------------------

You agree to comply with all applicable laws and regulations of the
Switzerland and foreign authorities, including, without limitation, laws
regarding the transmission of technical data, such as encryption,
exported from Switzerland or from the country in which You reside. You
agree not to export, re-export or import the Software or any direct
product thereof in violation of any such restrictions, laws or
regulations, or without all necessary authorizations.

Registration Data and Privacy
-----------------------------

Registration is required for you to use the Service. You must provide
certain current, complete, and accurate information about yourself as
prompted to do so by the registration form ("Registration Data"), and
maintain and update such registration information as required to keep
such information current, complete and accurate. You warrant that the
Registration Data is accurate and current, and that You are authorized
to provide such Registration Data. You authorize us to verify your
Registration Data at any time. If any Registration Data that You provide
is untrue, inaccurate, not current or incomplete, SixSq retain the
right, in their sole discretion, to suspend or terminate your rights to
use the Service.

Passwords, Cloud Credentials and Security
-----------------------------------------

At the time of registration, You must provide the Site with your full
first and last name, the name of your organization, if any, your
username and your valid e-mail address. You are responsible for
maintaining the confidentiality of the password and account, and are
fully responsible for all activities that occur under your password or
account. Further, you might be required to provide cloud credentials for
using Third Party Cloud Providers (see Section 9) the Site uses (e.g.
Amazon Web Service, StratusLab) as back-end. You agree to (i)
immediately notify SixSq of any unauthorized use of your password or
account or cloud credentials or any other breach of security, and (ii)
ensure that You exit from your account at the end of each session. SixSq
cannot and will not be liable for any loss or damage arising from your
failure to comply with this Section 7.

Trademarks
----------

SixSq and the SlipStream logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of
SixSq Sarl (the "SixSq Marks") in Europe and other countries. You agree
not to display or use the SixSq Marks in any manner without SixSq's
prior written permission.

Notice and Procedure for Making Claims of Copyright Infringement
----------------------------------------------------------------

SixSq is committed to respecting the intellectual property rights of
others, and we ask You do the same. SixSq may, in their sole discretion,
terminate the accounts or access rights of users who violate the
intellectual property rights of others. If you believe that your work
has been copied in a way that constitutes copyright infringement on our
Site, please deliver the following information to SixSq' Copyright
Agent:

-  An electronic or physical signature of the person authorized to act
   on behalf of the copyright owner;

-  A description of the copyrighted work that You claim has been
   infringed;

-  A description of where the material that You claim is infringing is
   located on the Site;

-  Your address, telephone number and e-mail address so that we can
   contact you;

-  A statement by You that you have a good faith belief that the
   disputed use is not authorized by the copyright owner, its agent or
   the law; and

-  A statement by You, made under penalty of perjury, that the
   information in your notice to us is accurate and that you are the
   copyright owner or authorized to act on the copyright owner's behalf.

The Copyright Agent can be contacted by postal mail at SixSq Sarl Rue du
Bois-du-Lan, 1217, Meyrin, Geneva, Switzerland or by email at
copyright@sixsq.com.

Third Party Cloud Providers
---------------------------

The Site may use third party cloud service providers (collectively,
"Third Party Cloud Provider(s)"). SixSq is not responsible for the
availability of such other Third Party Cloud Providers and do not
endorse and are not responsible or liable for any content, products or
other materials available on such Third Party Cloud Providers. The usage
by the Site of Third Party Cloud Providers do not constitute an
endorsement by SixSq of such Third Party Cloud Providers or the sponsors
of such Third Party Cloud Providers or the content, products,
advertising or other materials presented on such Third Party Cloud
Providers. Users of the Site must comply with the Terms of Use of the
Third Party Cloud Providers they wish to use. By providing the Site with
Third Party Cloud Providers credentials, You explicitly state that You
will comply with the Terms of Use and that you are authorized to use
these Third Party Cloud Credentials by the owner of these credentials.
SixSq cannot be held responsible in any way, shape, or form if the Third
Party Cloud Provider credentials are misused, stolen or altered
following providing these credentials to the Site. You acknowledge and
agree that SixSq shall not be responsible or liable, directly or
indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or
in connection with use of or reliance on any information, goods or
services available on or through any such Third Party Cloud Providers.
If You decide to provide the Site with Third Party Cloud credentials and
use these Third Party Cloud Providers, You do so entirely at your own
risk.

Disclaimer of Warranties
------------------------

THE SERVICE IS PROVIDED ON AN "AS IS" AND "AS AVAILABLE" BASIS FROM
SIXSQ. SIXSQ MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND WITH
REGARDS TO THE SERVICE. TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMISSIBLE BY APPLICABLE
LAW, SIXSQ DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT
NOT LIMITED TO, IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE AND/OR NONINFRINGMENT. YOU ASSUME THE ENTIRE
RISK OF SELECTION AND USE OF THE SERVICE AVAILABLE AT THE SITE. WITHOUT
LIMITING THE FOREGOING, SIXSQ MAKES NO WARRANTY THAT (i) THE SERVICE
WILL MEET YOUR REQUIREMENTS, (ii) THE SERVICE WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED,
TIMELY, SECURE, OR ERROR-FREE, (iii) THE RESULTS THAT MAY BE OBTAINED
FROM THE USE OF THE SERVICE WILL BE ACCURATE OR RELIABLE, OR (iv) THE
CONTENT OR INFORMATION AVAILABLE ON THE SITE IS COMPLETE, ACCURATE OR
AVAILABLE.

NO ADVICE OR INFORMATION OBTAINED BY YOU FROM SIXSQ OR THROUGH THE SITE
SHALL CREATE ANY WARRANTY NOT EXPRESSLY MADE HEREIN.

Limitation of Liability
-----------------------

SIXSQ AND THEIR RESPECTIVE SHAREHOLDERS, AFFILIATES, EMPLOYEES, AGENTS,
SUCCESSORS, OFFICERS AND ASSIGNS SHALL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY LOSS,
INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, LOSS OF BUSINESS, LOSS OF USE OR OF DATA,
INTERRUPTION OF BUSINESS, LOST PROFITS OR GOODWILL, OR OTHER INDIRECT,
SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, EXEMPLARY OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND
ARISING OUT OF YOUR USE OF THE SERVICE, EVEN IF THEY HAVE BEEN ADVISED
OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH LOSS AND WHETHER OR NOT THEY HAD ANY
KNOWLEDGE, ACTUAL OR CONSTRUCTIVE, THAT SUCH DAMAGES MIGHT BE INCURRED.
THIS EXCLUSION INCLUDES ANY LIABILITY THAT MAY ARISE OUT OF THIRD-PARTY
CLAIMS AGAINST YOU.

YOUR SOLE AND EXCLUSIVE REMEDY FOR ANY DISPUTE WITH SIXSQ IN CONNECTION
WITH THE SERVICE IS TO CEASE YOUR USE OF THE SERVICE.

Exclusions and Limitations
--------------------------

SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OF CERTAIN WARRANTIES OR
THE EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF LIABILITY FOR INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES. ACCORDINGLY, SOME OF THE ABOVE LIMITATIONS OF SECTIONS 12 AND
13 MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.

Indemnity
---------

You shall indemnify, defend, and hold harmless SixSq and their
respective shareholders, affiliates, employees, agents, successors,
officers, and assigns, from any suits, losses, claims, demands,
liabilities, costs and expenses (including attorney and accounting fees)
that they may sustain or incur as a result of your use of the Service.

Termination
-----------

You agree that SixSq may, at their sole discretion, deny You access to
the Site and disable any user name and password associated with You for
any reason, including, without limitation, if SixSq believe that You
have violated or acted inconsistently with the terms and conditions of
the TOS. SixSq reserves the right at any time and from time to time to
modify or discontinue, temporarily or permanently, the Service offered
through the Site (or any part thereof) with or without notice. You agree
that SixSq shall not be liable to You or to any third party for any
modification, suspension or discontinuance of the Service.

Notice
------

Notices to You may be made via e-mail. SixSq may also provide notices to
You by displaying notices or links to notices on the Site.

General Provisions
------------------

| *Governing Law, Jurisdiction and Venue*.
| The Site (excluding any linked Third Party Sites) is controlled by
  SixSq from the Canton of Geneva, Switzerland. The parties agree that
  the laws of the Canton of Geneva, Switzerland, without regard to the
  conflicts of laws principles thereof, shall govern all matters
  relating to access to, or use of, the Site and the Service available
  through the Site. The parties agree that any action brought by the
  parties to enforce or interpret any provision of the TOS shall be
  brought exclusively in an appropriate court in the Canton of Geneva,
  Switzerland. The parties hereby consent to such jurisdiction and waive
  any objection to such venue. SixSq make no representation that the
  Site is appropriate or available for use in other locations, and
  accessing the Site from territories where its contents are illegal is
  prohibited. Those who choose to access the Site from other locations
  do so upon their own initiative and are responsible for compliance
  with local laws.

| *Force Majeure*.
| Except with regard to the payment of money, no party shall be
  responsible for any delays caused by acts of God or any other cause
  beyond its reasonable control, including but not limited to such
  things as strikes, riots, acts of war or terrorism, restricting
  legislation, embargo, blockage, work stoppage, major outage of a
  public communications carrier, etc. Any delay caused by one party
  hereto which affects any other party's ability to perform according to
  the terms of the TOS shall extend the non-delaying party's obligation
  to perform by the same number of days by which the delaying party
  delayed in performing its obligations.

| *Severability / Waiver*.
| Each provision of the TOS is severable; if any provision is declared
  void, illegal, or unenforceable, such provision shall be modified by
  the appropriate judicial body to the minimum extent necessary to
  render it valid, legal, and enforceable while effectuating insofar as
  possible the basic purposes of such provision. The remaining
  provisions shall remain in full force and effect. No delay, omission,
  or failure to exercise any right or remedy provided for in the TOS
  shall be deemed to be a waiver thereof or an acquiescence in the event
  giving rise to such remedy (but every such right or remedy may be
  exercised as the party exercising such right or remedy deems
  expedient).

| *Entire Agreement / Survival*.
| The TOS constitute the entire agreement between SixSq, on the one
  hand, and You, on the other, with respect to use of the Service and
  supersedes all prior agreements or previous discussions (written or
  oral) between the parties. The TOS have been written in the English
  language and, in the event of any conflict or inconsistency between
  the English-language version and any translation hereof, the English
  language version shall prevail. The TOS may be modified by SixSq by
  giving You the opportunity to electronically review and agree to the
  new TOS. SixSq also will post the new TOS on the Site in the same
  location the previous TOS was posted. Any provision in the TOS that
  may reasonably be interpreted as being intended by the parties to
  survive the termination or expiration of the TOS shall survive any
  such termination or expiration.
